---
layout: post
title:  "Exploring the Impact of Father Time on NBA Player Performance"
date:   2022-11-17
author: Seth Argyle
description: How does an NBA player's statistical performance change throughout their career? Read this blog to view some visuals exploring this question.
image: /assets/images/hourglass.jpg
---

NBA players have careers anywhere from one to twenty-five years long. Their performance changes from year to year due to several factors (e.g. experience, health, role on the team, opportunity, etc.). Naturally, when a player is just starting, it's expected that they will struggle because of the increased competition and new situation; additionally, it's not a surprise that player performance declines when they begin to age into the 30's. Given this ebb and flow during the career of a player, general managers understand that a successful team most often requires contributions from players who are in their "prime". This quest for a player's "prime" years begs an obvious question--when is a player's prime? Can data tell us? Are there different phases or types of prime? That's what I'm set out to explore.

Let me provide an example for how answers to these questions could prove valuable in today's NBA. Rudy Gobert, a famous player who previously played for the Utah Jazz, was recently traded to the Minesotta Timberwolves in exchange for several players. Here's a list of all the players involved in the deal (along with their current age):
- Minnesota recieves:
  - Rudy Gobert (30)
- Utah recieves:
  - Patrick Beverley (34)
  - Malik Beasley (26)
  - Jarred Vanderbilt (23)
  - Walker Kessler (21)
